**Obstacle Race Programming**

In the obstacle race, we use a similar programming approach to the one from the opening race for the driving fundamentals, as we also aim to keep the car centered in the middle of the track as much as possible. To achieve this, the Raspberry Pi calculates an average position where the car would be in the middle. It then determines how far the car is from this center in terms of percentage. This percentage is then converted and passed on to the servo motor. Only when the camera detects a colored block, the Raspberry Pi connected to the camera sends a signal to the driving Raspberry Pi. The driving Raspberry Pi then executes a corresponding evasive maneuver. The signals are transmitted using on/off electrical signals. For example, the Raspberry Pi connected to the camera applies a 3-volt current to one of the wires between the two Raspberry Pis. The Raspberry Pis have built-in GPIO pins that send a HIGH signal to communicate. The driving Raspberry Pi checks if there is a current on one of the wires. Depending on which wire is affected, it performs different actions. For red blocks, it steers to the right, and for green blocks, it steers to the left. To detect the color of the blocks, we use filters/masks to isolate specific colors and filter out errors that the camera might detect. We then identify the contours. To set the color values of the masks, we wrote a separate program with sliders. Additionally, the car has several safety maneuvers that are triggered if the front ultrasonic sensors detect that the car is about to hit one of the blocks or the barrier. In such cases, the car reverses.
